**DocGenius**

DocGenius is a powerful document question-and-answer system developed using the Gemma Model and Google Generative AI Embeddings. It enables users to query documents and receive accurate responses based on the context, making it easier to extract relevant information from extensive text data.

**Features**

- **Intelligent Q&A:** Utilizes the Llama3-8b-8192 model via the ChatGroq API to provide precise answers based on document context.
- **Advanced Embeddings:** Employs Google Generative AI Embeddings for efficient text representation and similarity search.
- **Document Ingestion:** Loads and processes PDF documents from directories for seamless integration.
- **Text Splitting:** Uses Recursive Character Text Splitter to chunk documents, ensuring thorough analysis.
- **Vector Store Integration:** Implements FAISS for fast and scalable vector similarity search, enhancing retrieval of relevant document sections.
- **User-Friendly Interface:** Built with Streamlit, offering an interactive and simple user experience for querying and reviewing documents.

Install dependencies: pip install -r requirements.txt

**Set up environment variables:**

Set GROQ_API_KEY and GOOGLE_API_KEY in a .env file.

**Run the Streamlit app:**

streamlit run app.py

**Usage**

Upload PDF documents to the application.
Enter your questions in the provided text input field.
Click on "Documents Embedding" to process and index the documents.
Click on "Documents Embedding" to process and index the documents.
View the answers generated by DocGenius.

**Description**

DocGenius facilitates accurate and context-based responses to user queries, enhancing productivity and decision-making in document-centric tasks. By harnessing the power of the Gemma Model and Google GenerativeAIEmbeddings, DocGenius ensures precision and efficiency in handling complex document structures.

**Result**

The code loads documents from a directory, splits them into chunks, and creates vector embeddings using GoogleGenerativeAIEmbeddings. These embeddings are stored in a FAISS vector store. When a user enters a question, the system retrieves relevant document chunks and generates a response. The response time is also printed. The relevant document chunks are displayed in a Streamlit expander.

